>> Mike North: So the first thing we're
going to do is we want to create a folder
for this new package.
So we're going to say mktir dash p.
So we create all subfolders
necessary to make this work.
And we're just gonna call this UI.
I'm creating a folder
here called Packages.
This is where I'm going to
put all of my packages.
There's another approach that some people
like to take here where they'll have two
folders, one called Apps and
one called Libraries.
And they'll separate out their leaf
level dependencies like CLIs, UIs,
servers from things that are sort of
in the middle of the dependency graph.
But it's just purely
an organizational construct and
we're going to keep things simple for now.
All right, next we're going
to take all of the code and
except for a couple files,
if you're following
the course notes,
I have this list of files too.
We're going to select everything,
deselect packages.
What we're going to
leave is the gitignore,
the nvmrc which is just make sure
we're all using the same node version.
We're going to leave the prettier config,
we're going to leave the pnpm lock file.
We're going to leave the readme for
the whole project and
let's move everything into,
>> Mike North: Let's
move everything into packages
UI except for those things.
Okay, I'm definitely hit no here.
This is gonna freak havoc if you
update imports for known modules.
The next thing we'll do and
I think I actually had a version of this I
accidentally checked in here,
but, no, no, this is fine.
PNPM workspace.
You want to have this
also in your root level.
Now I've added some things here.
Normally when you'd start this
journey you wouldn't have this file.
All we're seeing here is these files,
sorry,
these NPM modules have a post install
step that requires like a little
bit of a build once it's installed and
it's on disk.
And this allow lists those two packages so
that they can do their post build step.
Normally you'd be blocked and
you'd see a message and it'd say like,
do you wanna let these two things run?
So I've taken care of that for you.
But the meaningful thing we have
to add to this pnpm workspace
YAML file is this packages and
then we're going to say,
we're going to in packages, say packages.
What we're saying here is we're telling
pnpm that this is where it can look for
subfolders, each of which
represents a package.
Now we will need.
So if we close up packages UI,
we're going to need a package JSON
at the top level of the project.
This is going to be really thin.
We're going to give this package a name
and it's going to be called Seeds, and
we're going to give it a version and we'll
just say 001 and we can say it's private.
True, what private means
is your package manager
will refuse to publish this
to NPM if it's private.
And there's one more thing that I want us
to move here, and that is if you go to
your package JSON you'll see there's
a little volta object at the bottom.
This is kind of like the nvmrc, just make
sure that if you have volta installed,
we're all using the same version of Node.
This only really matters,
or at least using a monorepo
the right way, in my opinion.
You'd say we want one version of Node
that you're using across development of
every single thing in this repo.
So I wanna cut that, bring it to our root
level package JSON, paste it, and save.
One last change we have to make,
if we go back to our UI package JSON,
the one with all the dependencies in it,
we're gonna wanna rename this.
Originally this was the Seeds
package project and
we're going to rename it to this.
Now, what I've done here is I'm kind of
leaning into this concept of NPM scopes.
So if you wanted to put this on NPM,
if I wanted to publish this project,
I could go and reserve,
if it's available, the NPM scope seeds.
And that means this is kind of
a prefix that I can use for
any packages that I wish to publish.
So, for an open source monorepo
consisting of TypeScript libraries,
it's very, very common for
you to have an NPM scope that kind of says
it's sort of in the package registry.
The monorepo concept,
it's saying these are all interrelated
packages for some reason.
Sometimes they're used for
other things too, like Stripe.
We have a ripe scope, and
we have multiple repos, but
it's sort of an indicator that this
is a real package from Stripe or
some of our real packages are there.
Great, okay,
this is gonna be a recurring theme.
I've touched some package JSON files.
Therefore, I must run pnpmi.
Before we do, I just want us to
examine the state of the world.
There's no nodemodules
folder anywhere here yet.
There is one, of course, here,
it was part of what we dragged.
We should see a little node
modules folder up here now.
It's not very interesting.
There's not much in here yet,
but we will get there.
You can see that there's some
evidence of something's happening.
Like, hey, look,
this is a little a state file.
And we've recognized that
there is this package.
And I have 001 here.
Clearly something's taking place.
Now, something unfortunate's
happened here, though.
What I wanted to do was say this still
works and the build command's not found.
We have to figure out
a way to wire this up.
The solution to this is going to be going
back to this package JSON file@ the root
of the project, and
we're going to be creating some scripts.
The first script we're going to create
is this build pnpm color run dash r build.
I'm writing this in the most
explicit way possible so
that we can see how this works.
Now, if we were to run PNPM build,
we can see, hey, look,
there's Vite doing its thing,
and it's building the project.
What does this mean?
Well, first we're saying I'm running this
build task and I'm doing so recursively.
I am going into each package
that I find in the workspace
as defined in this workspace YAML file.
Like I'm going to everything I find here.
And by the way, this is how you do
multiple oops, except with real YAML.
Well, you have multiple listings here.
I think you just can't have
the same thing over and over.
But like it's going through every
package that, that it can find and
where a build task exists.
Like, as long as a package,
like our UI project has some build
script that is going to be run,
all this does is make sure that
the colorful output is preserved
to get everything wired up nicely.
It's gonna be super easy.
We're going to create a bunch of these.
We're going to say this one is lint and
this one is test and this one is dev and
this one will make format and
last one is check.
Again this snippet is in the course notes,
if you want to make that real easy.
But it's just like, we haven't really
changed what any of these things mean.
We have simply now said all right, there's
a fan out for all of our one packages.
We're going to run these things now.
You should be able to do pnpm test and
it should work pnpm lint and
it should work pnpm dev.
We should see the startup
where there's the client,
there's the server, everything works well.
>> Mike North: One more thing I want
to show you all that's important about
how we just did this.
Let's look at our git diff and
let's add everything, and
sorry, I can get rid of that.
I want to see this as a tree so
that I can close the tests.
In fact, the whole UI package.
So look at what's happened here.
We have a PNPM lock file because
we preserved this because we
didn't just sort of like nuke it or
leave it in the UI sub package.
All that's happened here is like a little
bit of restructuring up at the top.
And there are obviously about 5,000
lines that haven't been touched.
Very important.
This is one of the benefits of pnpm.
The lock files are much
more human readable.
And if you had done this
with a YARN lock file or
a package lock JSON, you might
not see such a clean result here.
That would give you confidence.
We have accomplished this reorganization
of our code without releasing
any of the locks that we
had on all of our packages.
You don't want to be doing that at the
same time you're reorganizing your code.
Because that's like we're trying
to do one thing here, and
that's move some files around and
get some NPM scripts wired up.
That's nice.
Then furthermore,
if we look at the way that this code
is being treated,
it's important at this step.
You want to see all of the changes you've
made as being regarded as a rename.
Why is having this as a rename a good
idea as opposed to a deletion and an ad,
which you would get if I was
messing with these files,
if I was making changes in
the files of a substantive nature,
in addition to making this move,
you get to preserve your git history.
>> Speaker 2: That's right.
>> Mike North: Right?
You don't want the old history
of this file to end and
then a deletion happens and
then a new file pops up into existence and
there goes your git blame because
you've lost all of that history.
It's very valuable to preserve.
And so
this is why when you're doing this step,
I would advise this is
a good first step to do.
Don't continue refactoring here and
separating things out into
different packages as part of that.
Because when you're doing that,
you're introducing a much stronger
possibility that you're gonna lose
history on some of these files.
Well, in this case, it's such a simple
operation we're performing that
you've got a very good shot at these all
just being sort of a reorganization,
which is exactly what you're doing.